[About](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/) / [Posts](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/post.html)

#personal stuff

recently, i have to admit that i'm thoroughly broken: psychologically damaged, physically ill, and mentally disturbed. i manage to stay at the border between sanity and insanity which annoys so many people along the way. i have bad vibes. ever since, i've traded these problems for love, sheltering and security. that is cheap, and simply wrong. it also distorts too much my perception of reality, of how the world works, of how relationship bases. most dangerous, it leads me deeper into my problems. a spiraling negative cycle that never ends. besides, it hurts others in the process. i was ignorant of this byproduct but then i witnessed the fall of one of the most solid individual i ever know. i ruthlessly tore life apart after delluding people with my seemingly innocent and fragile intimacy.

that was what makes me realise that healthy people dont deserve to have me nearby. i suck up their lives like an energy vampire and leave them cut open, worthless and empty. i dont know if i can ever change for better.

i have fucked up parents. they have very thick vibes that make the house unbreathable. their mental health is as clean as the way they physically live: collecting useless trashes, self deprecicating, drug abusing, dirty and smelly lifestyle.. their ideology protects them from seeing all these problems. they think they are living a life of virtuous saints that self sacrifice so much.. but they disgust and curse rich people, discriminate prostitutes and lower working class..

but i dont think i have the courage needed. the best i can do is to plainly show my problems as is to people passing by that care to have a look. most will do the right thing: to turn away and continue their course.

it takes enormous effort just to be normal.

it still does.


##.

as an attempt to be back on writing, i write this piece and try not to delete it. my writing hasnt come back to me and i dont know why, but this is a try. (note: this sounds pessimistic but my bad mood is due to papers being rejected =)) of course i obviously prepare for rejection and i see valuable improvement after each rejection but it still sucks. and everytime something sucks happens to my ego, i tend to remember every embarassed mistakes i've ever made in my entire life =)
