[About](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/) / [Posts](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/post.html) / [Comics](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/comic.html)

#how much of that is possible

*(this post is just another routine existential crisis.*

*btw,
i dont tolerate sexually offensive comments on body parts of any female peers in front of me.
no matter what languages you speak, even if you come from a stupid male-dominant culture,
that is not normal, that is not harmless, that is MENTAL)*


##1
chess / go is a vulnerable game. you open up your mind and soul in the course
of playing, inevitably. trust me on that, i'm a noob player so i know that
a person with higher level of craziness
can read you like a blank book, without even try, without you even knowing it.
the reason i still like to play despite that fact is that i'm amused by things in
people's mind. if they are comfortably let me in, i can stay in their mind for a while,
touching this touching that, have a cookie, then leave.

(and craziness is not very rare.
i read an article that says
normal people have very similar pattern of neuron firing in their brain. but autism
people, you can't find pattern. for 100 different autistic individuals, you find
100 different beautiful maps of the brain. each map is different,
each map focuses on a different thing. crazy people have wild imagination.
imagination with synaesthetic sense (whatever the word, it's about people that see
color in sound for example).
in that [article](http://aeon.co/magazine/psychology/are-we-all-born-with-synaesthesia/),
there is a hypothesis that early infants have every sense mixed together.
only when the brain develops, it specialises. adults that see colors in sounds are
people that have some mistakes in their development. and synaesthetic is more popular
among us than we think, if not, how can metaphor be so wildly used and appreciated?
you may have some synaesthetic condition but you just dont know it.)

##2

anyway, when did i witness the method of madness in improvision and beautification?
maybe in the time i worked as waitress in a japanese restaurant (run by vietnamese).
customers figuratively sit on your head. i got a sense of perfectionism in that
small restaurant. the real japanese may be ten thousand times more perfectionistic
than that. but if i really want to know, i have to see and ask, i dont know much
japanese. and japanese guys i know dont express that much obssession about perfection :)

so, there is this one person that show me *that* much perfectionism is possible.
i havent
come to that level yet. and my whole life may never be able to do that because
that person actually is talent in an already very culturally and socially
prominent extended family with high social status and rich in wealth also.
(i guess some people can have everything).

the thing about this person is that he seems extremely simple at first.
what do you expect in a philosopher-architect? it turns out that you can
expect everything. 

one informal conversation the afternoon
waiting for the sun to set (it's the kind of conversation that anything can go,
from western philosophy to the wisdom of the old days that have gone so far away)
and he changes forever how things at the
back of my mind have been working (i guess i was too low level).
it may sound uncomfortable the fact that
you dont know that you have that background process
and you dont know that they've touched it. but they open up,
make some communication with it
and leave it hidden again.
in the mean time, the late sun beams through the tree and
flood the air with glowing amber color of sunset.

and years after, what he says and what he never says sometimes still come
back and amaze me.

one of things that the host never says is that the open wooden cottage
is built to have that effect of shining up people's hair
& eyes in the late evening tea course.
and the garden surrounding is designed to have a breezing pleasant sound
of the leaves with bird chirping
and flower aliving to the smallest details. in that garden, you can find trees
in your childhood memory, and you can find beautiful plants that you cannot find
anywhere no matter how hard you look. then
every single details you touch in the house can tell a long story of a
prominent extended family and their huge accumulated legacy of intellectual wisdom
and wealth, and art, and social status. 
actually that house complex (not very big) captures the whole universe and
nature spirit in
for the living of human inside it. (i guess that's what happen when a philosopher-
architect designs his own house).
if you want sunset, there is a place for relaxing that has a perfect angle to take in
the light of honey sunset. if you want stars, there is a second floor
that frames the whole starry night up above. if you want breath of forest, there are
big big trees that you only see up in the mountain.

you can feel art and wisdom floating around in the fresh air you breath.
and that house opens to all kinds of people, it is never locked, the host invites
random people crossing his paths to stay in and talks about random stuff.

if that is not madness, i dont know what is.

##3

i never admit that person's influence over the young me version. because it may be big
to me, but it's marginally small to him. i'm among a thousand getting in the house,
having some tea with the host (best tea i ever drink in my entire life),
exchange information and thoughts, and my whole reality shakens up to turn into a
completely different one.

i never admit many others' influence over me also. for example the boss that
still gets me
nightmare when i think of (well, kinda =.= ). but i get many things from her,
accent, some personality, the fighting spirit (yes, she shows me that
*that* much fighting
spirit is possible).

maybe because i dont like the idea of being manipulated. but
i dont know whether it is
a self denial or it's a legitimate reason when i sorta want to admit
(at least to me)
that some people really do things that can become
the way i see the world.
