[About](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/) / [Posts](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/post.html) 

# existential crisis

i think buddist people become buddist because
they are enough with all these fucking existential crises that
punctuate every two weeks so they decide to get rid of
the whole emotion pack at once.
or at least they dig out everything about their sense of self,
throw it in the fucking trash and become no one >:(

very neat solution.

i'm definitely going to try that fucking route.
life is too hard you guys and i dont want to live miserably
when it comes to the point that my emotion system gone malfunction.

##existential crisis

an existential crisis is triggered by oxygen molecules wandering around in the
air. so the first best solution is dont breath in.

what about second best solution, you ask?

well, let's procrastinate another day and analyse it in a professional way.

we live in an era that has
[social consequences for EVERYTHING](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rqevO_zrxsA)!!!

everything you do will annoy someone (the counter act of us toward this brutal world is
"haters gonna hate"), everything you do will be taboo according to someone,
everything you do will fall into category of morally wrong due to someone..

but no one wants to be the bad guy !!!
the old time teaches us to not be the fucking bad guy. so we have to uninstall those lessons in our brain and stop feeling bad about
everything. otherwise, these programmed [moral fashion](http://www.paulgraham.com/say.html)
will constantly creates frustration and psychological issues.

in *normal* siutation, these small issues hide in your unconscious mind and
pile up waiting for vengeance.
and everytime an existential crisis hits, it rips out all the veiled vunerability,
lays bare all your insecured stuff under the sun.
by lowering your threshold of moral health, it unchains
every single problem (mostly social problem), boils over to the surface
whatever simmering in your unconsicousness and drive you nuts.
all at once!!!

well, you say we are adults, we have to cope with things.
so there are two solutions. first is to solve the problem as soon as it appears,
no matter how tiny it is, you take care of that so that it dont mess with your
psyche behind your back. second, if we have swept the dust under the
rug for a while now (because we are lazy
human being or because we dont know that it's a big deal, our unconscious mind is
a silent beast),
when the crisis strikes, we try best to use the miserably small
part of brain that we have control
to adjust
and mentally cope and wait for the mess settles down into new order.
we hope that after this new order, things will be better.

WRONG!!!
things never gonna get better.

it will mess up again.

and everytime it hits, it brings back the old procedure of terrible feeling, of
seeing every corners of your reality meltdown completely, of having no value to count on,
of being hapless and wait for the chemistry to be less valent, then make effort to
do closure and fake rituals to heal...

now there is a diminishing return to that fucking same old story even if you are a
sadist.

and i'm enough with all of this!!!


the only way to ever survive is to get rid of the whole bundle at once.
and here is the motherfucker:

##sense of self

it's what makes you feel whole. it is supported by
a set of many objects. its elements
could be a job you do excellent you derive joy from that, it could be the vast range
of color and shape of mesmerising rose bushes on the road, it could be orange melon...
these things dont really matter much
in the sense that they dont betray you, they dont raise your expectation. the
dangerous thing is when your list consists of people.
the problem gone scary wild after this point.

i watch
[this about love](http://www.ted.com/talks/helen_fisher_studies_the_brain_in_love)
and [this about love at the wrong convention.](http://www.ted.com/talks/esther_perel_rethinking_infidelity_a_talk_for_anyone_who_has_ever_loved)

oh dear, life is delightfull charming and equivalently traumatic.

but there is a lesson in the second video of infidelity.
before this, i thought trust is about the
other. love is about the other. exclusively.
it's a sacred act of a person to whom the joy of the other
enters and almost occupies their utility. now that's the first level.

there is another deeper level after that. it also occupies a big
place in your sense of self.

to be clear,
i'm talking about true love. the only kind of love that matters. (altruism and trust
is in this same category). and i also limit to love that is mutual which means
it's perfect.
if you have one-sided love, screw you, i'm sorry but you have to deal with that.
(i had to, too, and do everything to avoid it again, that's not fun.
human in general has to.).

now suppose you love this person, and this person loves you. chemistry makes
details to their fingers look surreal. and the whole world is somehow repainted in dazzling
colors and some special secret halo substance. wonderful.

but. just like in research, in order to understand love,
you dont look for confirmation, you look for refutation.
(the question that can be asked to reveal people like me is this implicit observation:
how much are they
willing to pay to have something? - this includes any kinds of payment)

so we dont take a trivial measure to love. we consider a problem: cheating.
define cheat? i dont define cheat. but let's borrow the word "cheat" in conventional
way (affair). this word in conventional dictionary means morally wrong.
which means that you go to hell for that.
hell is for bad person. and you are bad because we collectively
say so. and we say so because we define righteous.

in the second video, she talks about how
the value system (which back the whole world) of the cheated partner will collapse.
"if i'm unique, i'm the chosen one, i'm the one and the only, and they cheat me,
who am i then? what is trust? can i ever trust anyone anymore?"...

but. here is the same question for the cheater: if they is my unicorn, if we are
perfect, if they is the one and the only of me, and i *cheat* them, is there something
seriously weird and wrong about the me? what is me? i dont lie when i love them
-> their sense of self collapses in the same way.

so we end up with a big mess of many realities collapsing at once.

which is not fun.

##conclusion
my conclusion is that love is overrated. it's attributed to a "too grand ambition"
that it is never supposed to have, and nature has no obligation to fulfill a
promise that is never supposed to be executed.
the uncomfortable thing about this blind belief in love is that,
it raises our expectation and once love fails that grand ambition, our self falls apart.
(it isnt fun to be delusional also).

second, love is a bloody risky business, too small probability to win and
the probable result of losing is too devastating.
so bless those who can find the ultimate soulmate that fits them
in almost all dimensions of their complex ego. (elen fisher puts people that claim to
still be in love after years of marriage, and the craving part of their reptile
brain still fire, so they dont lie, there is true true love). these people blissfully
have their sense of self to remain intact,
solid and secured in a big time span of their life. good for them.

the rest of the population shall become wise buddists.

(or maybe i'm hitting my pre pms)