[About](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/) / [Posts](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/post.html) / [Comics](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/comic.html)

#dont be demoralised and dont be intimidated by labels

these are bugs that i hate when i found them in my thinking. because they are
nonsense bugs, but they are deadly. i report them so someone may find this useful.

##dont be demoralised

in other words, dont feel bad about yourself. there is a life-and-dead difference
between a newbie and a resilient person. it is about the way they treat themselves
in mistake. i of course remember my newbie attitude. i do some studying in few days
and come to exam, getting medium mark, i immediately fall into self-destructive mood.
at worse, my psychological unstability can slide me straight into depression.
you know what crazy teenagers do when they are emo, right.
for normal person, feeling bad about yourself do harms just like a poisonous diet
because it undermines your moral perspective. you become oversensitive to everything
in the world. you become a conspiracy generator. the spiral future of that is
paronoia.

but why you shouldnt?

in stressful situation of clashing principles,
i've crushed so many social relationships i already lost counting.
in stressful situtaion, i've crushed my relationship w boyfriend so many times
i also lost
counting. the only thing that makes our contract survive (i think) is that that guy
also has big ego that is not easy to be pushed around by any others (even me).

first time you crush a social relationship, you feel so bad.
i dont say that you cannot feel bad about it. you can. you can feel bad about it for a
nanosecond, then move on. if you follow the truth without fallacy,
nothing else matters, even your ego.

the ridiculous thing about being demoralised easily is that it doesnt make you progress
in solving any even minor problem. so much time wasting on that, i must say, because
solving problem is not at all easy at any level.

you may say, of course you say this, you are tough & aggressive as hell, you understand
nothing about fragile souls. let me tell you why i'm entitled. unfortunately
i must say that with my
data history of child molested, ridiculous parents fight, being *educated* by solid
communists to become communist, being 
[children of the internet](https://medium.com/@Grayfox/the-hacker-who-drank-ayahuasca-517148aa1ed4)
just to have existential crisis and trust issue about everything in the world.., i'm
more entitled than a big part of the population to speak about subsidising poverty,
utopia society, egalitarian principle, pity over insecured and low-selfteem *teenagers*
..blah..

i dont feel like i want to exercise these entitled rights.
first because i've stopped thinking
about these events as
[something about me](http://www.paulgraham.com/randomness.html).

but more important is the second reason,
i find out that if power is not justified, resistance is legitimate. putting
power in the unentilted hands (because of pity, maybe)
is the fastest way to slide to the end of humanity.
first because of the ignorance of that agent, second because of the rigorous resistance
from others.

how do we know a power is justified?

power and talent must be [transparently measured](http://www.paulgraham.com/13sentences.html)
 and attributed.
the most hated kind of unentitled power is the power that is inherited. like the
rich of this generation is translated into the political advantage of the next generation
without moving a finger.
if you build your self esteem on that and your unconscious dont slide you into
self denial or internal crisis (which means you kinda enjoy being a faker),
that's a bad sight (if not f*cked up).
because that's not only bad for your own (i dont need to care if
fakers harm themselves), it's bad for the whole
ecosystem.

##dont be intimidated by labels
fakers are annoying because fakers radiate black smoke of poison into the atmostphere
and make it unbreathable. but more deadly is the second reason,
fakers make newbies mistake about how the power
hierarchy should be decided. and this is the reason that will kill the whole ecosystem.
a few peacokers in the population can naturally sweep persons doing real work away,
and at the same time posit a wrong image for newbies.
well, if i'm intimidated by labels or labels that fakers conveniently tag in
their conversation, me as a newbie would try my best to collect fancy labels
(supported by lies of other fakers) to be dignified in the society.

that's why everyone should learn to distinguish label and value
to spot [fakers and weirdos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NEp9aaQuYp4).
and if you are not
scared of faking labels anymore, plus you are
really doing something on your own, you'll have an unbreakable and psychologically
healthy mindset. (how to do something? work hard in the right way:
start from abc then bounce it around to
get feedback then iterate really fast
to def, then loop that process until you reach at least xyz,
then move on to the next alphabets..)

there was a time i would like so much to brag about my teacher on social media.
the teacher that
teaches me the first lessons on game theory - a fullbrighter in stanford.
but what did me as a person do at that time?
i was a dead-wrong loser playing around with some artificial exercises and
already thought that i'm einstein. like a frog at the bottom of a well, it looks up
and sees
a small circle fragment of the blue sky, and the frog thinks that it's all there is.

should i now feel bad about that time? apart from admitting the fact that
i annoyed so many good people and constructed an oh-so wrong image for younger kids,
i dont feel anything.

i already paid the price of wasting time on not-improving.