[About](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/) / [Posts](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/post.html) 


#equilibrium

*"I have spread my dreams under your feet;*

*Tread softly"*


i watched this film among many others long time when i was in bachelor
and had nothing to do with my life. bt with different data history, you reflect
different things in your self on to the film you watch.

##equilibrium sustaining mechanism

equilibrium is a film about a grey future.
after WW 3, human decides that they can't afford to survive
another WW, so they go extreme to
solve the problem of how to survive.
they eradicate the decease that causes war: emotion.
having emotion is rebel and to be killed at sight. they burn mona lisa, burn love poem
and report their wife, friend.. anyone that have feeling.

the drug factory is called equilibrium. the highest power is called power of justice.
with the head is called Father. Father says "keep Faith". this is what
[Elon Musk](http://waitbutwhy.com/2015/05/elon-musk-the-worlds-raddest-man.html)
calls "the problem of Hitler". see what Aaron Swartz says about this
[here](http://www.aaronsw.com/weblog/intentionalevil).

in my bachelor, i watched films according to actor, director i liked. and i watched
quite a lot of Bale (watch his American Psycho =)). Bale is among actor and actress that
i think should act forever.

anyway, Bale is a grammaton cleric first class, and he is the best among all the grammaton
cleric first class. grammaton cleric is the leader in army of the Father, spotting
rebels and kill them. his wife was a rebel. he didn't know how to feel about it when
they captured her away.

rebel in this film is not very rebelous. they stop taking the drug provided by
equilibrium, and they collect art, memory, feelings, whatever left from what they call
humanity. Bale's wife, at being captured, she just ran a last time toward him and kissed
him, before they took her away, she whispered: "remember me".

Bale can smell emotions in other people, which makes him deadly, and he never miss.
and he never stop training and practising at sensing emotions around him and
martial arts, which makes him unstoppable.
it seems like his mirror neurons are quite sensitive.

##mutants
his teamate (another grammaton cleric frist class)
is a rebel, too. people with emotions shine very different from *normal*
people, they are not *normal* people with another hand in their back but they are
completely different creature. they cant help to let emotion shine through their
way of moving, breathing, touching... it's like genius are not faster thinker than
normal,
but they take completely different route of thinking. which can make them odd
(or people think there is something wrong with them).

this rebel grammaton cleric first class is like that, too. he went out everynight
to an abandon place, just to read poem:

```
I would spread the cloths under your feet:
But I, being poor, have only my dreams;
I have spread my dreams under your feet;
Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.
```

they seem passive and can't do anything about their emotion, and once they have it,
they can't let go even in the risk of dying instantly under the rules of the Father.
so the rebel grammaton cleric just let Bale killed him in the abandoned place,
holding his book of poem. he doesnt want to go back to the old way of living.

##drift
so how Bale slips his way back into being human again?

he suddenly dropped one shot of the drug one morning, and when he came to equilibrium
factory,
it's closed. so he went straight to a rebel house. the resistant is a messy
beautiful woman. she is artsy, spontaneous and stubborn.

then he came to another raid of killing,
the sudden hit of people dying in his arm, of puppies being killed indifferently..
creeps in Bale's unsconsciousness. they turns into a loud dream and when he wakes up
the rain is making a rainbow out of the window.

he starts to take off his gloves to touch the staircase, touch the broken
wall by so many
gunshot, he touch and rearrange his desk, look around to see people.. he smells
and take the red ribbon
from the stuff of the beautiful woman.

the transition of Bale is delightful to watch. his rational thinking starts to
generate non-stop reasons to not kill this puppy, to not kill resistant pepole..
clumsy articulated reasons, but cute. of course the system doesnt take his feedback.

but rebel people with emotions is not normal human faking.
they simply can't hide that. and
once Bale starts to have feelings, the underground of the rebel naturally opens their
way to him, he longs for it, and people with emotions sees his feelings, they
let him join them.
there is no faking, no testing, because of its
sheer loveliness and pure joy,
you can't have it enough. the grey world is so far away no one
ever wants to go back being "radically indifferent" [Nietzche] anymore.

anyway, they have a machine to track your heart rate to conclude whether you have
real emotion or not. that's the most primitive machine i can see =)) when they say
"Mary", Bale's heart rate goes crazy. in my oppinion, anyone can see that
with bare eyes and the machine
doesnt even look fancy =))

now even people with emotions admit its weakness when emotion go chaotic. but they say
the difference is that "when we want, we can feel". some has to pay the luxury life
to have that privilege, some has to try to live unemotional to fit in. none is a
long term solution.

what is long term solution? when the emotional pepole has the best of
the grammotan cleric,
they say "it's simple, we kill the Batman" [Joker], so Bale goes to kill the Father.

well not that fast. he "pays gladly" the cost of revolutionising 2000 years of
traddition. he pays Mary.

immediately when Mary realises Bale has emotion, she reaches out to touch his hand.
so they touch their hands as carefully and softly as 2 lonely humans among the vast dead
cold prison of an apathetic society.

##off to new basin of attraction

the rebel leader said they just need the power of justice to be headless for one day,
they will bomb all the drug factories and in just one day, the course of human
nature will wake and win itself.

- will you do it?

- yes

- can you?

- i dont know

and the rebel leader says, "dont see her for the last time".

of course Bale still watch Mary execution on camera because
you dont reason with reptilian brain. When
Bale goes to his desk, the soldier shows nervous anxiety, he
watch again his wife execution, and he saw himself standing in the back,
ever indifferent.
so he runs to save mary from stepping into the fire, but it's too late, he watches
her burnt alive in 3D.

the great soldier collapses on the pavement, crying.

after that, he kill the Father, the factory bombed, the sun rises at horizion
as glamorous as ever.

the free folk seizes the army and the population jumps to a
anther equilibrium.




