
[About](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/) / [Posts](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/post.html) 

#how does failure taste like

*(i is me, you is sometimes also about me. pardon me, grammar is hard)*

##0

Khan's race is the generation of gene-modified superhuman to be much stronger, much
smarter than human race itself. human engineers them to be peacemakers of the world.
but it ends up that Khan leads his race to destroy all races that he considers *inferior*.
because they are better than human in all aspects, they understand the fragile of human
more than human itself, they disgust human.
it was a bitter war that normal human would lose completely if it woulndt be
the help of Vulcan people. (even so, it's still a very difficult war that leaves
everybody damaged)

of course when human starts to kill Khan's people,
the hatred becomes reciprocal and it is justified. but it all starts because
Khan (& people like him) never knows so they never understand
how it feels like to be a hapless human, to be weak and
more dead-prone than any animals ever evolved in nature.
Khan never knows how it feels to be a loser. Vulcan race may manage to fight them
and freeze them floating in the universe, but the
pride of being superior is never taken away from these people.
they strongly prove that they are the smartest
and strongest people in the homosapien club. you unfreeze only one of them, and
that guy already causes a big mess and can manipulate everyone.

(movies like those reflect the paranoid of human on technology and super
intelligence. not to say augmented human, we can see that paranoid very clear
in what human can do to other human like themselves.
people like Tesla, Turing, Gallileo.. suffer terrible tragedy
just because the average crowd fear their intelligence
that deserve far in the future.)

##1

i know how it feels to be humilliated, in public, when no one says anything but even you
see your incompetence (aka your failure).
it's vividly visible in center of the room and you cant hide it.
even when truly nobody cares, you still feel naked.

how can you know that i'm not humble bragging about some of my failure that looks like
failure but actually being really cool? first, that's a topic i save for another day,
if i cannot manage this damn thesis (which is very likely :) second,
of course i'm not talking about my failure
in mental thinking. failure of me in mental reasoning is at the level that i can
be proud of, it is something that if
you can manage to take away from me, i'm not even mad.

i'm talking about physical challenge. in physical
challenge, anyone can beat me.
the best i can do is climbing the hill near trento using double time as normal people.
(that's why i go alone. isolation helps thinking also.)
i'm only able to run after bus hence people that run really sets high standard for me.
the same for people that do long & risky trekking, same for people that do sport of
harsh condition.

i remmember lying deadly on the training floor,
feeling tired like hell, wanting to give up. when
others keep going on one two three four like no big deal,
i realise that "so this is how it tastes like,
[being hapless](http://www.paulgraham.com/relres.html)".

feeling hapless is terrible.
if i lose after i try so much more than any others can do if they dare to
take my task, i dont feel bad, it's still a nice failure story to humble brag about.
but if i am a loser because i am hapless, nobody cares, and nobody should care.
i see clearly that i deserve that.
and i humiliate myself for that. after *intensive* physical exercise,
i wake up at night because it even hurts to breath. the good thing is that
it's the muscle pain that
helps distract me from feeling pychologically terrible. days and hours pass by,
i just let the failure wash over me, then move on.

anyway, when i see people struggling with things i can do, (things that i've
practiced to be efficient),
i start to refrain myself
from jumping to the hypothesis that they are lazy 
(except for some dumbass that really wants to be asshole).
not because i dont think so
anymore, (if i work my ass off for that skill, i cant tolerate the unequal
effort of others). but because the road between being a helpless person and
an ok-competent one
(in all aspects of being human)
is a very [lonely](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HO4e4nCYBEo&index=5&list=LLPcV7wAnTzTaq9392rV6eLg)
 road. you have to manage it yourself.

and nobody cares.

