[About](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/) / [Posts](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/post.html) / [Comics](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/comic.html)


#is it today yet?

i always say the keyword game theory when i need to think about what do i do.
however, i havent written anything about it yet. things i want
to write about are usually things that keep popping up in my head before i sleep
or when i'm on bus. if game theory doesnt pop up at all
while my mind get drifting around, it's red alert.

(if you wonder why you dont have things popping up in your head, try this: keep the
smart phone away for one day. after a while, you feel vacant. the vacant mind
will turn into craving very fast, just like a visceral factor (hungry..).
the smart phone with all these tiny apps is designed by
smart people to occupy your head & consume your life so i know that i cant win
wrestling with that. i'm thankful that i'm clumsy enough
to broke my phone, not because i have the ability to resist this powerful temptation.)

then it turns out that writing about other topics is not easier for me. it is just a noob
illusion. it seems easier writing about something in your ignorance. when you climb
up the ladder, nothing is easier.

##the only way to hang on is to do what you love

yesterday i watched [a normal TED talk](http://www.ted.com/talks/elizabeth_gilbert_success_failure_and_the_drive_to_keep_creating)
by a writer. TED talks are supposed to be inspiring in general but i'm not *that* impressed.
(but now i know that i shouldnt watch
TED talks or do things that excite neurons before going to sleep. that's a fatal mistake.
because they keep staying up & talking & discussing vibrantly about everything
in the universe in an exponential burst.)

today somehow this sentence keeps coming back to me:

>[i failed a lot but]
I loved writing more than
I hated failing at writing, which is to say that I loved writing more than
I loved my own ego, which is ultimately to say that I loved writing more than
I loved myself [and that's what keeps me writing].

(when something keeps coming back to you, it means that you need to do something about it.
like if weirdo keeps coming back to you, it means that you are seriously fucked.
(dont fall prey to weirdo. just dont). apart from those deviation of social norm,
mostly when something keeps popping up in your head, it means that it's important.)

##but your claim of loving is only justified when you can take the failure of it

there is this old story about two women in a small market. they
quarrel very loudly for hours and make a big mess.

(now i'd like to say a bit about vietnamese women. vietnamese women in market are tough.
once i saw a woman chasing after a man out of a market, he was running for the sake of
his life and she ran after him a while, holding something in her hand being ready to
throw that stuff at the man anytime she caught up. i never knew whether that stuff
was a knife or a slipper or a brick. i wouldnt try to figure that out.)

anyway, 2 women are quarelling very hard about something. it turns out that they are
quarelling over an infant baby. both women cry very loudly that the kid is hers. both
say that they put the kid in their basket bringing them to market and the other just
takes the kid while she doesnt pay attention. because no one knows who is telling
the truth, both women go to the court. after listening
to long crying & quarelling, the court man says this:

"because i cant tell who is lying, i'll put the baby in the basket again, and both of
you grabs the basket and pull it with all your strength. whoever wins gets the basket
with the infant in that."

the game starts, but not long until one woman bursts out into tears
and lets go of the baby. the court then immediately concludes that the baby
belongs to the sobbing woman, and ends the story.

-> that's a very touching story that anyone can praise for hours about mother love
blah blah blah. if that is all, that sounds like a lame argument. and i think most
people dont
remember it after a while.

this is why i excuse me
from god's invitation to love him tremendously, like i think biological accident
is a lame argument parents use to justify their control freak attitude.
these people with such tremendously voluntarily love on you will be willing to
put you on fire because they together think that they are doing that for your own good.
 the scarry thing is that
 what makes them believe weird things are just as arbitrary as geographical accident.
who knows. hence
i'm always suspicious of people like that.

but people mistake a lame argument with a very strong argument about love.

##a strong argument for love
if i were that real mother, i'd be ready to get into a fight to slap that bitch for
messing around with my property. i'm entitled to that. she is not. i dont
even need to go to court for that.
as long as
you say or do things that you are entitled to, no one have the right
to take anything away from
you, from property to dignity.

also, the basket just needs to have a thing i legitimately make and own to make me willing
to bite off the other to keep it. it doesnt even need to be something valuable.
because a small thing sufficiently represents my right already.

but that mother gives up. she gives up her property and her dignity.
indeed she gives up everything
she is entitled to claim. she also takes the failure to be a loser.
because it isnt worth to hurt or even make the baby feel uncomfortable.


many people go around saying they want this they want that, they love something so much
they think it's so romantic blah blah blah. no wonder when pressure pushes the
relationship to the point it breaks, it falls apart. because rare things survive your ego,
if you happen to find such thing, keep that. especially if your ego is justifiedly big.
this seems trivial, but if you have a principle to live by,
then consider in which case you are
able to disown it? then consider this question again when you are truly in
a stressful situation.

##is it today yet?

it's similar mistake to think that to love is to do smt i feel
cool. not necessarily. winning is of course cool. but if you think that, you
only do things that you are sure you win. and those winnings are very small.
like peacocking. you learn some big words buzz words and spit it out in front of
someone because you desperately need attention and affirmation from that person.
never works. disgustingly never works.

winning big is not just cool, it's overwhelmingly joy if you think about it.
but no amount of dreaming about winning (an illusion simulated inside your head)
can get you any closer to such. it just makes you delusional and self denial about
your failure (when you fail, and of course you'll fail, not once, not twice,
but always more than you think you can endure). besides,
that happiness after long endurance
of failure is not really joy, it's relief.

recently i was so frustrated. too much.
so much that i felt so certain that one day i'd really do what
Rubinstein wrote in his lecture, i'd "claim to be among victims of game theory".
then i'd give up.

just not that *today* yet.

maybe among frustration you should vividly think about
someday you'd outragely burn out the whole bunch of books & pen & notes.. on
your shelf, and say never again to grad school.

after seriously considering that, ask this next question: is it today yet?







