[About](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/) / [Posts](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/post.html) 
#who do i see at *mensa*?

*this is a small talk among the stressful thesis time*

*mensa = school canteen*

i eat at mensa twice each day (even in new year time, as long as it opens).
(now i'm hoping it will sell breakfast also). and i occupy almost the whole time
it opens (i didnt realise that i eat super slow until one day i was aware that
3 people in my table got up, another 3 came in and got up again, then another
new one sat down). so i have quite large observations. 

##mensa worker

the new mensa near the beautiful piazza Fiera has brilliant potato chips.
best potato in my entire life are eaten in that same small, cozy and cute place,
in just a very short span of time.
i swear i never ate such good potato which is perfectly crispy outside but so
soft and warm inside, and they give me wonderful ketchup -> perfect combination.

that mensa is really cute. the tables are cute,
the chairs are cute, the colors are warm and fuzzy, the noisy sound in the background
is also excellent. the cleaniness is over the top. there is hot water in toilet
which toilets in school dont even have.

there is this little miss waitress that is the sweetest human being on this land
i've met. she is little, and chubby, and smile like little miss sunshine. once i saw
her running out of the kitchen, making a baby sound, and hugging a guy that is
2 meter tall, and she looks happy like a baby hugging her teddy bear :)

##core set of mensa eaters
there is a small fixed set of people i always see at mensa. i dont know them.
but once this guy suddenly pauses at the drinking machine, say: good evening to me
and leave. several times he is just talking to the little miss baby then
suddenly turns over me to say something in italian like old friends.
i can only try to look like i understand.
there is also a foreign couple i guess. a dog also. yesterday that dog runs toward me
then it runs around and around.

##frequent mensa eaters
there is a bigger set of other frequent mensa eaters,
i saw many professors, no less than students eating there.
before that i didnt think that professors eat at mensa, like i didnt imagine that
professors are on facebook. i just go out to have meals, i dont come to meet them, and i already see nearly all
of them that i know, if i go with other friends, maybe they'll know more than that.

###a.
most frequently is a group of professor of behavior economics,
and experimental economics, and
friends, and colleagues, and phd students, chit chatting all the way down from the lab
to the canteen and back (i imagine so :)).

i never see an experiment folk wandering around alone in this campus, it's like they
all go together, i met their group once when they were going upstairs and i went
downstairs, there were like 5 - 6 of them in a line and it was five "hi!" in a row from me.

anyway, it should be. there is a lab to run
behavioral experiments on top of the department building. the way to that lab is quite
like a maze to me, indeed, the whole department is like there are 3 separate buildings,
and one day, people decided to connect these 3 together by a combination
of mysterious hallways and stairs and lifts. from the classroom to the lab,
there is a particular door at which i have to turn right, if i pass that door,
everything messes up.

people in this lab, you can see them all in canteen,
and you see their names pinning all over the board of
fame in the open hallways on fourth floor, pinned with
papers on journals in behavior fields that
you can name it.

###b.
i saw professor of international trade
also. on the door of his office, there is
his portrait in sticky figure style that his kids draw. this is a class that the teacher
will write very aggressively in the syllabus just because he knows that he'll surrender
students. and no child is left behind.

he sometimes went with professor of game theory.
i've just known recently that professor of game theory is a philosopher. wow.
if it's not that people insist on that fact, that'll be the least i think of.
and this cant be just me.
i just met a Lithuanian student taking his course. this double-degree student knows karate and he does
competition in martial arts and the like, and he joked to me that "one hour in the first
class with this professor, and i already know that: omg this guy is tough!!!". no one
takes his class will ever able to guess that this is a philosopher. that's just not
possible. he does evolutionary game theory and can recall automaton machines 
from the back of his mind on the board and is happy watching them getting into fight for
the Nash equilibrium. (odd? dont think so).

###c.
there are other researchers also, professor of institutions, and his colleagues,
sometimes with head of school, they are late though. i remember profosser institutions
said he never had time to have lunch when in one lecture my chinese classmate asked
if he had lunch. when i got in a seminar room that he was the speaker, he asked
"do you speak italian" and i realised that it was supposed to be in italian.
he switched to english for that talk. he had a paper about people with power
in society still care about the welfare of the no-voice weak player, something like that.
academic people believe in what they do, even when it incurs some cost, i guess.

also professor that runs experiments on distributive justice.
i think that can be said as in the gang with institutions. i'd say that i heard he
has a theory of the time you line up waiting for food at mensa,
if the line is long then you are fast but if the line is short then you slow down, so
in general, the time you wait in line is fixed, and his colleagues name that concept
after his name, i think he should do a theorem on that
*(please dont tell him otherwise he'll be thrilled
about how gossips can go really far in a small hub of researchers in this small school
among the mountain)*.

###d.
i saw maths professor sometimes. i take his exam 3 times and nearly fail the third time.
it's 3 hours of doing calculation, i drank water like crazy and almost got fever
in the middle.
now he basically stays next door to me because
they helps me to have a spot in an old (look very abandoned) computer room
somewhere in the tangled maze of the management wing of this complex department.
i have to come there and try to start to write my poor thesis and finish it by june.
i can heard
him talking to people in his office over the wall (not clear though, i'm not
that eavesdropping). i really hope he'll have a course in advance mathematics because
now i'm doing a miserable work on bootstraping mathematics on the fly (as i go along
Binmore papers).

###e.
there is also professor of history. she is actually cute if you look and hear
closely. but history is not really my strength and usually she speaks too gentle.

hmm, there are many more that i really dont know.
anyway, i also see quite a few friends of vietnamese and classmates:

some undergrad doing information cascade and he has five years of python as hobby.
the information cascade he describes sounds quite cool. it's like you have your own
signal about the quality of something (maybe your answer in exam), but then
everybody says the opposite (this is quite a nerve-breaking situation in exam),
so you make
a bet on the rationality of your peers and change the answer. i think every student
made this bet at least once in their student life. this bet is one of the reasons
that destroys friendship after that.

some classmate that got to Finland for exchange & now are back, somehow Erasmus made
him much more hardworking and active which is not possible, i heard that
Erasmus is all about parties ^^ some other classmate that
was working on internship already. i dont know why i dont see others, i think
they eat at mensa also.

some master guy doing emergence of cooperation and his friends. they always eat
at the closer mensa, though. i did that before but now i move to the cute one.

some vietnamese master girl that runs and walks a big number of km a day, she plays
a particular kind of traditional musical instrument also
(it looks like the harp but lying down)

some phd girl that runs marathons.

some phd guy that do insane trekking. he's a lecturer in his school and 
when we came to the christmas market he'd exercise the principal of Rawls:
care about the worst off in the group, dont leave them alone :D

some phd guy that once presented FS model in the seminar that had both Binmore
& Rubinstein in the same room.

some graduated master guy that knows at least 3 programming languages and do agent
based modeling simulation. he has a sharp and determined mindset, i talked with him
once about my tentative thesis and he spent a lot of time doing arguments with me.

some very sporty girl that i met once when we joined a group of random people climbing the hill
near trento.

some very active girls and guys in aiesec.

some newly master vietnamese guy that i just had a funny gossip session with. we
were talking about applying for phd and stay studying here.
we were wondering why we see many master students that took bachelor here but
we dont see any phd students that took master here. so we speculate that,
maybe every school is in the same situation. each school takes a leap of faith to
accept incoming students because these students maybe bad and may be good. there is maybe!
but if they look at students of their own school, there is no maybe. they are in the
position that they know for sure the quality of these guys =))))

-> that's why students apply to other school to increase their chance =))) and
students just circulate around the economy with an illusion of market efficiency
(but indeed it only creates unnecessary transition cost =))

anyway, i should go back to my thesis.








