#mystique

Mystique is incredible. But she only becomes incredible after
Magneto says she's incredible. Indeed she rises to be among the
superpowers of X-men: Phoenix, Professor X, Wolverine, and Magneto.
Professor X the young version is a proper weirdo, what makes him not
turn bad is the pride of being better than anyone. Magneto has the pride
of believing in ruling and being superior over people. Are they really different?
well, they were comrades once. Wolverine suffers extreme pain that no human
(even mutants) can endure, hence he becomes unbreakable, invincible, and resilient.
Phoenix rises and falls because she cannot (plus no one else can) handle the raging
beast in her unconscious mind.

Mystique wasnt any of that. Mystique has blue skin and stands out right at
first sight. Mystique was always questioning herself and trying to figure things out.
Typical teenager stuffs. Then Magneto says she is incredible, if she stops trying
to be like others, she can concentrate on powerful things that no one can ever do.

Later on, Mystique becomes the reason leading to the end of X-men. Her gene makes the
government able to create best response to almost all mutant power (at least all
fighting features). And X-men dies over and over again. The only thing they
can do is go back in time long enough
to change the day Mystique gene was collected (to undo
the battle once and for all).

##what about you

One thing that i think younger ambitious students (yes, "students" in plural)
than me should know is that you cant
hide ambition, you cant fake it also. To the ones who are trying to
hide your determination, are you afraid to show because people will see it? dont
worry. everybody sees it. you just can hide it. fakers can hide it in the crowd
because fakers dont have it. if you have it, it floods out in the local space
around you, like milky smoke. the thing is you dont have forever time to be shy. if
you can accept yourself to stay natural and comfortable,
how much better you can concentrate on things
that really matter? how much faster and more powerful can you be?

##fighting

i dont know if ambition makes you want to fight. fighting is not very easy stuff.
i usually try to avoid it. but sometimes it just cant let me be.
if you cant hold in the rage,
then go for it. but do it wisely:

- start alliance. start ambitious alliance.
not to show off, but to [race ahead](http://paulgraham.com/mean.html)
much faster than your normal pace.
fakers cant start alliance. fakers cant even afford to be autonomous for once.
if they are able to do that, they'd not be fakers in the first place.

start with someone you share the target. it's very difficult to work together
if you dont have same target. i have to let go many people i'd love to work with,
just because they have a different road to go. what if you share the target and
you are also very [determined](http://www.paulgraham.com/determination.html),
but you are a bit afraid of being noob? just jump in, let's save
everyone's time.

- given that one can only work a maximum amount of hours per day (i sleep 10 hours per
day, 2-3 for eating, 2 for other stuff.. i usually get in a classroom to sleep after
lunch, how can you Italians afford to work after lunch???), and only 1-2 hours in that
chunk are really climax -> you have to learn things that make you productive.
if [power and the vision of "leaving competitors in dust"](http://www.paulgraham.com/power.html) 
dont delight you, maybe you are working on the wrong things.

if you are not very productive for now, how do you improve it? just look for the
highly productive ones, and copy their moves. usually the highly productive ones
are the ones that look a bit obssessive, nerdy, and sometimes like a freak.
i always do that, if someone does something a little bit better than me, i have to know
how do they do that, and i imitate them unembarassingly. (remember to ["copy the right
thing](http://paulgraham.com/marginal.html)
and copy in the right way"). after a while, if you get used to craving for
improvision (it becomes your principle to live by), you'll see people starting to
copy you. just let them do that. that's the way we go.

- avoid fakers, weirdos, losers.. at any cost.
you cant pay the cost of getting involved with these.
normal people that dont want what you want will 
[pull you back toward the mean](http://www.paulgraham.com/hubs.html).

how to spot fakers? fakers talk like TED's facebook comments, like: "ok we wear good clothes,
now let's talk fancy stuff". I'd rather go to 9gag and read funny top comments
there. because 9gag commenters know that this is all about nonsense jokes, and
they naturally want to push it to the extreme of funny and useless.
it turns out to be not
very useless at all. these jokes are quite well thought, truly funny, short,
and best jokes are upvoted to show up at the first place. very useful mechanism
in an efficient environment. never see any thing good in Khan's facebook comments.

losers that fall down from an upper level also have a placebo "confidence".
it's just that they happen to stand near a light source, they think they are
shiny too. it doesnt really take much effort to make some inspection and close
observation to read these (like a blank book).

- last thing,

if you still hesitate, i'll say that i saw many people that dont want to become
nothing but because they cant figure out how to handle that desire inside them,
they keep messing up with stuff they dont really like.
finally, because they dont get any work done,
they ["crawl off somewhere and die"](http://www.paulgraham.com/die.html).


