#night at school

it gets to the point that i have to speak out loud "i will not leave school today
until i get 10 pages of thesis written as planned". and that's 8am in morning.

i told every friend i saw that i have to do that.
only later i realise 10 pages were too optimistic.

but that is me. i always over optimistic, too idiot to think far.

i think that if you are young and know nothing (aka idiot), you have to be a bit
delusional in order to make you start to do something big.

then it's determination and teamwork that will keep you going.
(being "relentlessly resourceful" will be how to go).

i have go to eat at 12am and sleep until 2pm.

at 4pm, i stuck at 2 pages. i was like, fuck me! gotta stay all night for real.

i go out and eat at 7pm, i thought, ok, you stay here anyway, why hurry..

so i watch game of thrones newest episode.

then tadaa, it's 10pm already.

they started to announce that they'll close to urge people to leave.

i decide to turn off light, go to sleep so that i dont make noise. i dont want
people to come and i have to explain stuff.

hell, the big chair is horidly uncomfortable, and it gets cold.

either temperature goes down to low or they turn off the heat.

so i get up at 12pm, find some toilet that is still open.

no sign of human. very weird. the door makes so big sound.

the thing i'm afraid most is after i go through a door, it's locked and i cant go back
that way any more. that'd be disaster.

but alas, they only lock doors in first floor (doors for students).

so i find a toilet on upper floor. i wish they have bathroom that have shower.

then i go back to the lab,
open the wardrobe (?), omg there is a blanket and even a mattress.
but setting the mattress is a mess so i only take the blanket.

the blanket smells old and itchy, but i believe no one complains in that situation.

i litterally sleep on the floor, under the desk.

it's weird.

it's strange and very difficult to fall asleep, and it's still cold.

my leg touch the desk, i hate my legs being constrained when i sleep so i let it out.

my hair gets dust but anyway, staying the lab long enough and you develop intimacy with
spiders.

(now i even feel comfortable leaving my laptop in the room because no sane human being
will even come across and care.)

i let at alarm at 5 and sleep.

waking up at 5 i can write 4 pages until i heard people speaking outside, it's 8am.

i'm hungry like hell and go home to eat a little and sleep like heaven in my bed until
11 am. i take a bath and still hungry as hell, i run to mensa.

btw, i didnt get to 10 pages, but at the end of that today, the commitment expires
so the following day i can go home.

i dont remember last time i turn off my PC at the lab.
