#the 3 times i wanted to quit school

##1.

the first time was in second semester,
i had to face with this challenge that i hated so much.
the hatred consumed me & urged me to drop out.
i was like: f\*ck all this madness,
if i fail, then i fail. push me more & i drop out. f*ck that.

that time i didnt quit because i passed (though horribly).
it was more like a clash of egos.

##2.

the second time was in second year.
there was this big conference at school:
many professors, many students, many researchers, many well dressed.

accidently i caught a cold while cycling along the river.
it gave me a fever the whole day at the conference.
it made me super tired but i was like,
let's just see what's up, plus they got free food in the hallway.
if i got too tired i could always get out & bike home.

the cold got worse when i was in the middle of a seminar
in a big room.
it was like an auditorium
& the seminar was very serious.
people made humble jokes and there were respected scholars
sitting on the front laughing & clapping hands.
everyone was seriously listening to the presenter.

i was a bit in the back but the structure of the room made the back
higher than the front so everyone could see everyone.
i just sat there, breathing heavily like i was going to die.
my head was so hot and heavy, my nose was running like crazy.

then i felt like i want to throw up.
but you dont throw up in the middle of an academic seminar
with all these respected scholars & fellow strangers around.
i had to tell myself: it's fine,
there is enough air to breath,
and you are warm in this big scalf,
it cannot get worse, you can do this.

at some point, i thought: if i really throw up,
i'll quit this school tomorrow.

i didnt quit because no throwing-up happened.

##3.

the last time was recently.
i didnt know that if i got that many credits already,
they would pay all the bursary for my second year right ahead.
so when i checked the bank account & see that all the money
was already there i became super excited.

i told my boyfriend i'd send money for family so that
they could enjoy Tet holiday.
he said: well, that's too much for Tet holiday in a small village.
you're actually sending $ for the Tet holiday of the debtors.

for a nanosecond i laughed & wanted to punch his joke on screen,
but then i realise that it's so true i got to record that joke [1] =))

the excitement faded away even faster while i made some calculation.
there'll be enough for eating & renting for the rest of the year
but spares no dime to buy ticket back home.

i was joking, oh f*ck this,
i'll just fly back home right tomorrow &
never come back. then.. that's actually a very beneficial
& rational calculation.

my family has been always complaining.
my father said, no one in this village'd marry a phd wife.
because they just dont do that.
my mother sighed, why dont you get a boyfriend that already
have a house in big city. what kind of job will you get
after doing this master stuff, seriously, now tell me
what kind of job your friends get after coming back with this master?

i didnt quit when i got that chance.

i still dont know why.

===

[1] in a similar vein, i give you shortest story in the world: "for sale: baby shoes. never worn"









