#why you should go to a max planck institute?

tl,dr: because the intellectual level is over 9000

##1
so i was accepted in an advanced course in a max planck institute in rostock, their
guest house is incredible, they provide me a working space in the library
(i sit next to
a bunch of econometrica :D). the wall is made of glass because they clearly
know the advantage of locating along a riverside.
the sunset is marvellous because it's autumn and the river always whispers something
gracefully to the wind.
they have a salad and fruit bar which is an incredible invention of human being.
they grant me travel, accommodation and even per diem.

there is a small forest in the middle of the city so you can just choose to walk
across the rainfall of read leaves or you can walk along the river to go home.
yes, just to go home.

there is an old prison (museum) of the old time that we visited today. it's a
narrow place and i imagine prisoners walking around here maybe 50 years ago.
they're identified as enemy of the state, being reported by
secret informers that might be their own relatives. i realise the potraits of
stalin, marx and lenin on the wall. oh wait they are beloved godfathers of our country :D
lenin showed love and humanity to a particular class of people, too.
then i thought, but western soldiers came to our land and sometimes when they didnt
have anything to do in an afternoon, they'd just go out and shooting random kids
on the rice field as a version of "angry birds" on an ipad today.
so how do we know we are not lunatics? is there objective criteria for that
so i can avoid to be a lunatic? maybe if we do something that is wrong, a good sign
is that i may have to destroy evidence in fear of being exposed? but a good
person can do that in fear of a brutal revenge from a dictator state too, so
we never know.

and a war is actually
a very structured and carefully crafted plan,
justified by the most sensible reasons ever invented.
they strive for best practices, automate as much as possible,
improvise and optimize the design of the prison, make a very logical and rational
procedure of holding prisoners and putting them on trials. very often,
the most lunatic killers are the most rational humans and
you'd be amazed by their consistent train of thoughts.

anyway, we went around to see cells, dark rooms, shower room.. but we werent able to see
the small yard because the only stair leading to that is under construction.
that's a pity for me because i kinda want to see what hope feels like. the prison
is a narrow space and scary, and sometimes the prisoners would be allowed to be in
the small yard (though it's caged and walled, guarded by armed officers) and they
can look up to see the sky through the iron bars.
maybe something would happen in the sky, like a bird, or some clouds.
i'd like to stand in that place and try that feeling, of seeing a cloud to happen.

anyway, i love them - the course organisers.

##2
5 euro from rostock and after work
you can chase the sun by train till the baltic sea and watch it set
over the horizon. the cold sea has a very different blue from the sea in vietnam,
it looks greyer, some blue grey color of melancholy and it doesnt even look like a sea,
it looks like a bluish mattress running toward the infinite horizon.
the sky dome above is unbearably cyanish blue with coconut clouds and colorful kites
topping. and it's the beach that makes it
look like you are watching the whole thing through a fish eyed lens: the beach is too
large.

as an equator citizen, no one ever told me before that the sun can move in a trajectory
of only 1/4 arc up in the sky and it can have different trajectory for autumn and summer.
i was like "holy shit this can't happen, what are you talking about, the sun is
supposed to be directly above my head at noon, my entire life is a lie"

i love it - the rostock sun.

##3
what is even better is that they organise a very dense concentration of intellectuality
from different discipline. imagine a room of people coming from different part of the
world, having their own experience in their real work (emphasis real!), so each time
there is a question raised or issue open, we can hear different spontaneous comment
intuitively coming from their itchy subconscious minds, and all these are gems.

i love them - the participants.

##4

the instructors are also wonderfully formidable and hardworking.
they connect incredible things together.
the whole world just suddently make sense while the rostock sun shines through the
glass windows. i love the 45 degree angle of the sun on the floor, glazing over
the table, the papers.. each instructor has a domain specific knowledge in something
and when they speak about that, beautiful things show up on the board, i was very much
convinced that statistics and econometrics have such a beautiful insight (yes, i was
ignorant and extremely hated these two). they shape me again.
now everyone leaving rostock will see everything as a stochastic process,
everything coming from some distribution, and the whole
world as agent based model... i really cannot unsee those stuff out of my eyes !!!

i love them - the instructors

##5
they give me 30 minutes to speak about what i do in their workshop and i honestly
hope i'll not screw up. smart people ask smart questions, and i'm both eager and
fear these questions coming from them :p (i ask quite a lot so i hope they dont
try to return the favor while i'm on the roast). anyway, you feel the thickness of
intellectuality in the air you try to breath in while your adrenaline rush
pushes you to think of
something clever. my point is that
maybe you are fine on your own but dont underestimate the
effect of a highly stimulating environment. it blows my mind away. and it'll do
yours.

their intranet portal is incredibly smooth, merit-based big funding available all the time
(:D). they have very good policy. the incredible thing about max planck
institute is that they have many institutes and in each there are
focus research groups in which you can be very particular.
for example, there is a research group about eurasia which have many focus study
on vietnam, china.. they also have many other focus groups about very modern topics
in the world also.

i love it - the environment

so try to get to one of these,

soon as you can

rostock <3
