[About](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/) / [Posts](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/post.html) 


# requiem for a dream

san bartolameo is weirdly quiet. i imagine a complex consisting of young humans would be
much noisier than this.

anyway, i love the orange warm color flowing out of the lighting windows at night.
as the sky is
dark, the warm energy fluid glowing inside the buildings is so inviting. it feels so safe.

when i arrived in trento i was surprised it is already autumn. cold and breezy.
the birds at school has left
for some place warmer. i guess so as i enter the school yard in the mid morning, i
dont see them circling and whirling enthusiastically high above me anymore.

i once wanted to ask why were they so happy just circling around in the sky?
are they playing together?

*

though i couldnt have done it differently, i have to admit that i got burnt out.
completely. now im broken as a flattened balloon on the floor. just not being
swept to a corner yet.

as much as i always choose to take the direct truth, i dont know what to do with a
disillusioned me now. dry and fragmented, like an old leaf the wind blows down on the
pavement. people walk across, they walk away.

*

day by day, things slip away like blurring pixels. the whole world fades.
and it makes the sound like the sound when we get down
under water. is that a sound or is that a silence? some day i can get over
that terrifying sound of silence to swim.

anyway, as much as im broken, i'd not *die* just yet.
maybe the reason im hitting a wall is
that i resist reality. maybe if i just accept the truth as it is, it'd be easier.
maybe this is the chance to end all these fucked up psychological damage in me,
and start over. maybe i can cure all the stupid childhood illness altogther.
or at least the biggest ones. some stretching physical solution will help.

*

it's just really hard to see through a distorted vision though.
sometimes i ask myself

"is it too much to ask for this and that?"

"no, i dont think so."

after a while, i ask myself again,

"is it too much to ask for this and that, is it worth to be this lonely?"

if on that day, im pessimistic, i'd say

"maybe yes, it's too much.
maybe it's you being too much the whole time, maybe you should really be a bit relax."

if on that day, im in desperation, i'd get upset

"why people can have this and that. why not me. i have work hard. i have tried.
i'll just need to hold on a bit longer."

who isnt stubborn anyway, right?
but what if one day, you see some kid over the street having exactly what you've been
desperately wanting, without moving a finger

can you hear that overwhelming sound of silence rising, somewhere from the darkest
ends of the universe?

and i stop asking why
