#common sense

##1

upon receiving stimulation from environment, the brain will do some interpreting stuff.
this process is dynamic and mallable.
it doesnt always interprete *as is*.
sometimes it interprete *as if*. it fills in wishful thinking,
repeated pattern in its data history, some other times it even creates.

if you are really into something, you are lowering some threshold for some other
related things to be confirmed.
this is quite a great feature if you are solving problem.
it's what makes genius be consulted anytime there is problem in their field.
because they have a trained brain that strongly connecting cues together.

but isnt that the same thing that makes mental, psycho, paranoid, stalker, murderer?

why the same feature gives birth to different trajectories to different people?
to the extent that it hurts brain to even think of. (how can sociopath have something
similar to genius, or why some genius has to suffer the paranoid that is
so much not-deserved?).

if you try to run simulation mimicking nature, you'll understand why.
everybody loses in the
race of simulating nature. nature has everything. and everything is infinite.
but the most important thing that set nature win by definition in this race is
that nature can handle all the nonsense stuffs.
we human cant. we love putting meaning in life. so much im not sure if it's hardwired
(fatal) or not. we define beauty and ugly, we put right and wrong.
i submit that god dont create
human in his image, but the reverse is true:
human create god in their image and in their desire to separate good and bad
in life.

we cant handle the fact that we are not real.
because we cant bear the fact that there are nonsense stuff.
but nature can handle nonsense stuffs. for nature, everything is nonsense.

##2
so here we are, the feature of lowering threshold when you focus is really a tool.
it doesnt have any meaning in it. it is never supposed to have.
so it creates whatever it creates, genius or faker, we have to judge.
and if everybody works in the common sense factory,
there is another feature we can use to trim off mental tendency: incentive.

like i feel good about food and sugar, when i'm about to do something negative,
it feels like my brain immediately inject
some poisons into me (ehh), it feels bad.

initially this feature is to avoid dying and keep reproducing.
however, this feature comes to be handy once the agent becomes conscious.
the agent can tinker with it. this is to say that human mind is programmable.

we havent come to the point of rewiring it fast and at will though.
but some young guy can do it with mice.
each time you record an event in your brain, there is an emotion associated
to tell you to avoid or continue to do it next time. but the thing is
each time you relive this memory, you actually recreate *that* memory.
so if you cut off the connection bw
the event and the emotion right at the time it's recreated, you never feel that emotion
at that event again.
the mouse in the lab is trained to be afraid of a box.
but when they cut off the connection,
all the bad memory about the box vanish as if it never exists.

we organically do it by learning to feel bad when we violate social norms.
convention is undirected punishment and undirected kindness.
anyone can punish anyone that violate that belief system
(even on yourself).
you violate the convention if you produce fake money for example.
anyone can pay grateful to anyone when it's the social institution to say so
(even to yourself).

what is common sense i dont know.
we may define it very different in different society.
that doesnt matter.
for me, the common sense comes from subconcious mind of
people that get most real work done.
it's what they like and what they dont tolerate.
the opposite of that is what is exhibited by fakers and weirdos.
and these two sides are by definition mutually exclusive.

common sense is subjective, not like nature, so i submit that
everybody can define any kind of *common sense* they like.
but for me, i'm willing to live the rest of my life betting
on the side of people doing real work, getting things done, and
have value created. i submit to such authority and advocate power being
justified by amount of value created that is transparently measured.

if someone likes to define their common sense to be what fakers and weirdos do.
or try to mix up (there can't be reason for mixing up),
our way parts.
