[About](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/) / [Posts](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/post.html) 


#Thesis teaser: Tough behavior in repeated bargaining game. A computer simulation study.

*(if you are interested please tell me to read my draft. the feedback i need is simple, pointing out 
what is counterintuitive, what is "hm".. because if i need jargon, i may just need to copy the whole
Vega-Redondo ;)*

##tl;dr version (aka abstract)
This thesis ventures in putting the repeated bargaining game under evolutionary force.
The reason is that in light of all the essential development of one shot bargaining
game, evolutionary method and the extensive literature on Prisoner's Dilemma, little
has been done for the repeated bargaining game.

Part of reason for this abandoning is that, despite having a continuum of Nash
equilbria, under homogenous settings, the one shot game keens on giving us what we
cherish: a stable equilibrium of fairness (50-50 division), robust to many kind of
tough pertubations. However, it's true that social interaction doesn't always yield
unconditional egalitarian. Hence the only way so far to justify unequal Nash equilibria
is to tinker with the structure of the game before the calculation takes place,
for example with the heterogenity in power, preference, need, information or focal
points.

Hence, this study would like to adddress the question: Is 50-50 division still
an evolutionarily stable norm when it comes to repeated interaction, even without
these heterogenity assumptions? Preliminary result says no.

##introduction

This thesis rests in noncooperative game theory (Nash, 1950-1951). As Myerson (1999) said, this
entire branch of ”practical calculus of incentives” came into existence all because of Nash.

Game theory deals with interaction among players in a *narrow* context. A context is *narrow*
 when one player’s action can change the course of the whole game because players’ payoffs
are sufficiently intertwined. This makes expectation matter which in turn makes the interaction
strategic. 

The difference between classical and evolutionary game theory (Maynard, 1982) lies in
the rationality assumption of their players. Built on individual decision theory, classical paradigm
carries on the legacy of strong mathematical foundation for the player: neat optimization and 
infinite recursive thinking of common knowledge. So they say, what is the point of a theory starting
with assumptions about players that are not even close to the statistically real truth? And if the
collective reality doesn’t matter, what matters?

Until now the narrative has substantially shifted from these ideal players to less demanding
subjects. Just as applied economics of behavioral, experimental, neuro-economics trying to figure
out a reasonable approach to modelling decision makers by adding cognitive and psychological
knowledge, theorists bring evolution into game theory. 

Starting from an amusing observation that
nature doesn’t assume any rationality of its creatures but its solution many times becomes our
definition of perfect, evolutionary game theory (EGT) offers a less pervasive way of thinking into
games by replacing strict assumptions by adaptive learning and letting the iterative selection 
process do its job. Surprisingly, sometimes it gives us the perfect equilibrium just like in classical
regime, and sometimes it leads to even stricter refinements. 

Another fruitful aspect to consider is
time dimension. Repeated game resembles the recursive nature of human interaction along time
axis and reveals new facets of the match that are not available in one shot. As in the struggle
between social-efficiency and self-advantage captured by Prisoners’ Dilemma (PD), the possibility
of tomorrow makes cooperation partly be in the interest of both players. It isn’t, in one shot.

This thesis ventures in putting the repeated bargaining game under evolutionary force. The
reason is that the one shot bargaining game is extensively investigated and well reviewed in the
literature (Binmore et al., 2003). In cooperative game theory, Nash bargaining solution is the
ultimate of what should be (1950). In noncooperative, the game is already put under stochastic
process (Young, 1998), evolutionary model (Binmore et al. 1998), with variations of sequential
(Rubinstein, 1982), experimental (Roth, 1995),.. Despite having a continuum of NEs, under these
rigorous considerations, the one shot game keens on giving us what we cherish: a stable equilibrium
of fairness (50-50 division), robust to many kind of tough pertubations. However, it’s true that
social interaction doesn’t always yield unconditional egalitarian. Hence the only way to push the
equilibrium point to other NEs in the set is tinkering with the assumptions or structure of the
game before the calculation process takes place, with the heterogenous power (Rubinstein,1982),
preference, need, information or focal points (Schelling, 1980).. 

In light of all these essential development, little has been done for the repeated bargaining game. 
Pardon my ignorance of the
literature, here is the motivation and rationale of this thesis: is 50-50 division still a stable norm
when it comes to repeated interaction?

Chapter 1 layouts the theoretical background on which the thesis is built on. Chapter 2 covers
the literature on application of EGT on Prisoners’ Dilemma and Bargaining game. Chapter 3 deals
with simulation and results. Chapter 4 concludes.