[About](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/) / [Posts](https://ayaderaghul.github.io/post.html) 


#the grandmaster

chuong tu di is the pretty woman of the orient. she has the radiant beauty of meryl
streep. with simple and elegant curve of the face, she has a fragile and innocent look
of a child but overall she doesnt look timid, she radiates power.

scenary in the grandmaster is marvelously beautiful. the young lady of the Gong family
and the prominent kungfu master met for a very short time. through the challenges
and the art of martials, the code of honor for the family.. oh so they speak.
in a language of the silence, provocated through the movements of the body, the touch of
the hands, the moments they gaze into each other's eyes and you'll see
their hearts sing ballad.

all other things that are left unsaid, they carry on that sweetness for their whole life.

then spring time ends, they send each other words from far apart.
she says mountains cant separate. if something is so near and dear to the heart,
the heart will not let go.

at that point, i thought chuong tu di will become the woman of luong trieu vy.

like in fairy tales.

but she doesnt.

the destiny between them parts. and parts for very long.


he did plan a trip to the northeast, where he would dearly want to see the beauty of art
culminated in her training. he got a coat for that trip.
but it is never worn. war happens. he keeps a button of that coat and
it becomes a token for them to remember the lovely intention he once had with
this dear woman.

she has to cut her hair to vow to revenge her father, to keep the honor of the family.
at the end of that devoted route, tired and thin, she invites the man once dearest to her
heart to an
entertaining house to listen to the songs they sing. "the vanity dream". "vanity is
already a dream", she said. and she marvels.
she talks about the day she was spontaneous, she ran to
such a house to learn to sing. she describes the alternate reality she keeps close,
a reality that maybe
she'll become an entertainner. then she sits on the stage to sing such the songs
people usually sing,
and he'll be in the audience listening. how simple joy is that. how simple a reality is
that.

then she discloses her heart, as if the spring time was just yesterday. she talks with
her eyes looking down, showing her long eyelashes. oriental women looks down.
with the forehead of a child,
sometimes in the conversation, the long eyelashes
open up, shows a childlike and innocent gaze. still pure and clear after all those
hardship.

she says "i had you in my thoughts", pale and calm.
"i've never told anyone that affection, oh, how come
i tell you everything today". she does tell everything on that day. she walks with
the never-be love of her life for a short walk, in a small alley, snow falling on their
shoulders,

shortly after that, she dies.

the loyal butler gives him "the young lady of our Gong family" which is
a piece of her hair burned in a box. she burned the hair she cut on the day she
vowed to devote her life to vengance.

-

i dislike love story of that end.


#nhất đại tông sư

chương tử di là người đàn bà đẹp của phương đông. di có vẻ đẹp thần thái giống
meryl streep. đường nét khuôn mặt đơn giản nhưng tỏa ra sự sang trọng, mong manh.
nàng có vầng trán và lông mày yếu đuối như con trẻ, mắt trong như mùa thu. nhưng
tổng thể không nhu nhược mà cứng rắn và can đảm.

cảnh quay trong nhất đại tông sư đẹp như hoa mộng. nhị tiểu thư nhà họ cung và
diệp tiên sinh có một đoạn nhân duyên ngắn ngủi nhưng chạm đến tận sâu thẳm
tâm hồn. họ mang sự dịu ngọt trong lần giao đấu ấy đi suốt phần đời còn lại.

thực ra là họ cũng có một hò hẹn với trái tim.
nhị tiểu thư có đợi. diệp tiên sinh có may áo mới để đi về phía đông bắc
gặp một ngọn núi lớn.

lúc đó tôi tưởng chương tử di sẽ là người đàn bà của lương triều vỹ.

thực ra là tôi mong chương tử di sẽ là người đàn bà của lương triều vỹ.

nhưng không phải.

thời thế, thế thời.. chiếc áo đẹp không bao giờ được mặc, về sau họ chỉ giữ lại
được chiếc cúc áo để diệp tiên sinh thừa nhận về tình ý một thời đã xa.

còn nàng cắt tóc báo thù cho cha.
đến tận cuối đoạn đường, mảnh dẻ và yếu ớt, nàng mới mời
diệp tiên sinh đi xem hát lần cuối, nàng kể vui về một thực tại khác của cuộc đời nàng,
trong đó nàng có lúc trái tính trái nết đi học hát kịch,
biết đâu có ngày nàng sẽ ngồi trên hát các vở ca kịch người ta vẫn hát,
còn diệp tiên sinh sẽ ở dưới lắng nghe.

rồi nàng thản nhiên kể về mối tâm tình nàng còn nguyên vẹn. nhị tiểu thư lúc nào cũng
vẫn nhìn xuống, hàng mi dài thi thoảng ngước lên nhìn bằng ánh mắt trong,
"trong lòng tôi đã từng có anh", nàng đẹp hơn hye-kyo ở thần thái cụp mắt như vậy,
ở đôi bàn tay xương gầy và mảnh khảnh, ở sự an nhiên.
"tôi chưa từng nói với ai, nay lại nói cho anh hết mất rồi".
nàng nói hết thật. rồi
nàng đi cùng anh một đoạn đường trong con ngõ nhỏ,
tuyết rơi lất phất trên vai. ít lâu sau nàng chết.

người gia nô trung thành mới "gửi lại diệp tiên sinh nhị tiểu thư của chúng tôi"
lúc ấy chỉ còn là nắm tóc nàng đốt trước khi thề báo thù.

tôi không thích những chuyện tình ngang trái giữa nhân gian.
